# Working with Steven

Hello! You and I are entering a manager-staff relationship.

I take my relationship with my team's members very seriously. Make no mistake,
unlocking your potential and growing your comfort with your own autonomy is my
primary goal. In order to do this, I think it's good to tell you a bit about
what to expect around working in this team.

This document can't take the place of spending time to get to know one another.
We'll build upon this foundation :) &mdash; together.

* Table of Contents
  * <a href="#introduction">Introduction</a>
  * <a href="#commitments">Commitments to You</a>
    * <a href="#ones">1/1</a>
    * <a href="#feedback">Bi-Directional Feedback</a>
    * <a href="#mgr-job">My Job Roles and Responsibilities</a>
    * <a href="#availability">My Availability</a>
  * <a href="#cadence">Cadence</a>
  * <a href="#beliefs">My Beliefs</a>
    * <a href="#diversity">Diversity</a>
    * <a href="#systems">Systems Thinking</a>
    * <a href="#multi">Multi-Disciplinary / Multi-Lateral</a>
    * <a href="#culture">Cultural Expectations</a>
    * <a href="#work-hard">Work Hard</a>
    * <a href="#questions">Questions Over Error</a>
    * <a href="#action">Action over Idleness</a>
    * <a href="#work-clean">Work Clean</a>
    * <a href="#dwbb">Deep Work over Being Busy</a>
    * <a href="#career">Career</a>
    * <a href="#basics">The Basics Aren't Explicit</a>
    * <a href="#details">The Details Matter and Are Researched</a>
  * <a href="og">Organizational Guidelines</a>
    * <a href="#weekend">Working on the Weekend</a>
    * <a href="#vacation">Vacation</a>
    * <a href="#sick">Sick Days</a>
    * <a href="#wft">Working from Home / Remotely</a>
    * <a href="#meetings">Meetings</a>
    * <a href="#friday">Friday Afternoon</a>
  * <a href="#tech">Technology Expectations</a>
  * <a href="#steven">Steven</a>
    * <a href="#tool">A Steven is a Powerful Tool For...</a>
    * <a href="#known-issues">Known Issues with Steven</a>

<a name="introduction"></a>

## Introduction

Curriculum production is a lot like producing television: multiple review
gates, a pipeline, and deadlines for delivery. It will feel strange at first
and _that's OK_! Not a lot of people have the background to do this role well.
Even if you've been doing it, doing it in a team might feel new. That's also
OK!

We're a rare, special, and unique breed. We chose you for a reason.

<a name="commitments"></a>

## Commitments to You

<a name="ones"></a>

### 1/1

You will have a 1/1 with me for 30 minutes every week.<sup>[1](#fn1)</sup> This
is designed for _you_ to come to _me_ with things on your mind. _You_ are the
focus here. Sometimes I might use a bit of the time to make sure you have a
grasp of your projects and workload, but my goal here is to give you 30 quality
moments of my full attention. Slacks will be closed. Notifications will be off.
Phones will be put away. This is 30 _high-quality_ minutes per week.

In order for us to make sure that our time is best used, I have a Google
Document shared just for the two of us. Here we'll keep minutes of what we
discussed. We can also put topics in here for things on the agenda in our next
meeting. We'll also catalog wins and losses here: this record will help me
pitch you for new roles and opportunities.

Some people, particularly when the topic is emotional or challenging, like to
bury it in the last few minutes of a 1/1. I did this for many years. If you
can, let's try to put those at the front of the meeting where we can treat them
gently and with respect. How you feel is very real to me.

<a name="feedback"></a>

### Bi-Directional Feedback

I hope that I give more positive feedback than negative. If you feel like the
balance is off, let me know. I want to celebrate all the good things you do
_with_ you. Sometimes negative feedback is warranted, and I hope we'll both take
these gems, when they come, as opportunities for improvement.

I hope to provide both positive and negative feedback to you in the following
format:

* Actionable
* Specific
* Kind

Please the feedback for me in the same style.

<a name="mgr-job"></a>

### My Job Roles and Responsibilities

I've documented them here: GDOC LINK

<a name="availability"></a>

### My Availability

I will clear my calendar for you.<sup>[2](#fn2)</sup> You are very important to
me. That said, I've got a lot on my mind andit would be helpful to ask for my
time in the following ways:

1. Calendar with agenda and questions (I can prepare!)
2. Slack with a specific concern; pre-warning of meeting invitation; meeting invitation (I can prepare and don't twist in the wind while I'm waiting!)
3. Slack message

Please avoid "we need to talk" or "just a quick second" messages. Without any
directionality I'll start thinking the worst.

## Cadence

We have a weekly flow or cadence at $COMPANY. I will explain this to you on day
one.

<a name="beliefs"></a>

## My Beliefs

<a name="diversity"></a>

### Diversity

I believe my team must be ideologically, culturally, gender identity, religious
identity, etc. diverse.  If you feel your identity is not respected by me, _I_
need to fix it. If your identity is not respected by our team, _I_ need to
guide the team in fixing it. This is not negotiable.

<a name="systems"></a>

### Systems Thinking

I, like many people in software, tend to view things as systems: inputs,
outputs, incentives, disincentives. Some people find this cold. Others find
this reassuring.

As a side-effect of this, I love working in hyper-scaling companies. I enjoy
building processes that create scalable, easy work.

If you want to discuss something at an emotional level, I'll try to pick up on
it, but if I'm going the wrong way, let me know. If I'm offering emotional
support and you really need a 4-point plan for getting to where you need to go,
let me know.

<a name="multi"></a>

### Multi-Disciplinary / Multi-Lateral

I have an unusual background for a technologist. I have an unusual background
for a humanist. I believe not-quite-fitting has been the key to some of the
better moments of my career. I translate Latin in LaTeX with vim, _for fun_.

I hope your [identity](#diversity) provides novel ideas and ways of connecting
material with presentation. Please bring your whole self to the team.

<a name="culture"></a>

## Cultural Expectations

<a name="work-hard"></a>

### Work Hard

Work hard. Do your best.

If, one day, you find that you no longer want to do your best here, let me know
and I'll help you move to the place you can be best. Don't ride the downward
slump. I'm here to help you move from joy to joy &mdash; even if your joy isn't
with me.

<a name="questions"></a>

### Questions Over Error

Since you're new, you're particularly sensitive to broken process in the team.
What an opportunity! Your questions will help us tune our processes. We're
sorry we're making you uncomfortable, but your bravery here will ensure whoever
comes next will have an easier go of it!

On the other hand, own mastery. If you ask, make your learning scale by writing
it down, adding to our documentation, or pinning a message in Slack.

<a name="action"></a>

### Action over Idleness

Because of Git and that we're in the business of _writing_, any work you
undertake that is stored in the form of text will only rarely be wasted. If you
don't think you have anything to do, _ask_. If you think something you've done
will be repeated again and again, _document_. If you feel like what you've
documented is a drag to do, _code_.

I believe we all choose to be leaders or not. Manager is a title, leader is a
way of being. I expect you to be a leader. This means, ***take initative***.

One of my favorite business books "[Turn the Ship Around!][ttsa]" describes a
world where the sub commander has so thoroughly described what "good decisions"
look like, his staff of chiefs etc. simply go around saying "I intend to...."
and, provided the intention is expressed with appropriate forethought and
consideration, says "Very well." This is my dream.

<a name="work-clean"></a>

### Work Clean

The philosopher Anthony Bourdain once said that a great mise-en-place chef
"works clean." Clean towels, sharp knife, clean surface. They hurry to finish
the dish, but then clean. When there's slop, they wipe. When there's slippery
pools of water, they mop.

Work clean.

For us this means, don't commit typos ("I'll get them at the next review
gate"), don't commit untested code ("Looks good, I'm probably right"), don't
make garbage commits ("Please work;" "please please work;" "fixed;" "not
fixed;" "die;") use `rebase -i` or squash in a merge.

<a name="dwbb"></a>

### Deep Work over Being Busy

Writing is a deeply creative exercise and I do not think that it can be done
well with a lot of distraction. When you're writing, I believe 100% of your
brainpower needs to be in writing. Log out of Slack. Ignore email. Block out
time in your calendar. Whatever you need to do to ensure you get one time-block
of perfect effort, do it.

<a name="career"></a>

### Career

***You own your career.***

***I own objectives.***

When I can turn the business' needs (my objectives) into a project or effort
that grows your career, we're in our optimal dynamic. I'll try to do this as
much as possible.

If you're stalling or hungry, _you must tell me what you need_.

If you don't feel like you're getting enough guidance, that's a great thing for
me to hear.

<a name="basics"></a>

### The Basics Aren't Explicit

Should you make sure your grammar is appropriate and your writing
spell-checked? YES. Did I need to ask you to do this? I hope not. My belief is
that your work product will always have _at least_ the polish that a
high-school senior would put on an English paper.

Likewise, your code samples should run and have been tested. I wouldn't think
this needs to be explicit, but here it is.

<a name="details"></a>

### The Details Matter and Are Researched

In the Curriculum development game we are here to make better documentation
than the documentation. We are here to tie it into a larger conceptual model
that helps students achieve great outcomes in short amounts of time. If you're
unsure of an API, **you** read the documentation and process it for our
students. If you're unsure of a grammar rule **you** pick up a reference.
***Don't hand-wave and hope you're right because you "kinda think you're
right."***

<a name="og"></a>

## Organizational Guidelines

<a name="weekend"></a>

### Working on the Weekend

Don't do it. I don't do it.

That said, I _have_ been known to write some code or write an outline or blog
about a topic _incredibly adjacent_ to my work on the weekend. You might do the
same, but I don't want you to believe this is an obligation. If we're doing our
jobs right your research time is accounted for in your time "on the clock."
Tensions here should be resolved in our [1/1 meeting](#ones).

<a name="vacation"></a>

### Vacation

Take it. Take it wholly. If you must check Slack, don't reply. If you want to
share pictures, cool and all, but seriously. Log out, set up auto-responders and
replace the Slack whisper-knock with _"Aloha o'e"_.

<a name="sick"></a>

### Sick Days

***Use your sick days***

They are a part of your compensation. If you WFH, miserably, you're not doing
it right. When you are sick or when your kid is sick or when you dog needs to
be at the vet all day. ***TAKE THE DAY OFF AS SICK***.

<a name="wfh"></a>

### Working from Home / Remotely

This is a privilege. If you cannot collaborate remotely, you should not work
from home. If you do not have enough domain expertise to work effectively, you
should work in proximity to someone with more domain expertise. We are a remote
team so you have all the flexibility you need. If you can achieve your
objectives and hold to our schedule, I don't need to see you in the flesh.

<a name="meetings"></a>

### Meetings

Meetings have a purpose and the smallest number of invitees possible. If they
finish early, they close. They have a defined purpose and an agenda ***or else
they do not happen***. It's entirely appropriate to have a meeting to
"brainstorm" or "spitball" or "debate a point," but they should never fail to
have a purpose that can be verified as having been met by the end of the
meeting.

<a name="friday"></a>

### Friday Afternoon

"Never deploy on Friday" &mdash; Engineer Wisdom

Meetings or heavy lifting after 1500 on Friday should not happen except in
emergencies.

<a name="tech"></a>

## Technology Expectations

* **Slack**: Per "[Deep Work over Being Busy](#dwbb)," I'm not a huge fan of
  Slack. Also, my early morning are my most productive time. I don't believe in
  squandering time with high-urgency, low-importance work. I only expect you to
  respond within 60 minutes during business hours (generally 9-6). If I send you
  something outside of this bloc you may safely ignore it until those hours. OR,
  if you feel like replying, sure, but you are not obligated to. Expect the
  same from me. If the line's long at the grocery store I might reply, but it's
  an exception
* **Calendar**: Respect your calendar. Reply to meetings / working sessions
  etc. within the day
* **Email**: Personally, I run at Inbox Zero (OK, well, Inbox ~ 5). I expect
  replies (even if they are, "Can't do this til tomorrow!") within a day.
  Email is for important things that we need a paper record of. When thought is
  required. The most important use of Slack, IMHO, is to blend an FAQ with
  expertise on where links are

<a name="steven"></a>

## Steven

<a name="tool"></a>

### A Steven is a Powerful Tool For...

* Sharing information and context from "on high"
* Helping grow your career and finding you opportunities
* Provide perspective
* Getting a hand: "Can you help me with...?"
* Making and documenting a system or process
* Building a pipeline to transform data or make drudge tasks go away (usually
  with ancient spells like `sed`, `awk` or `perl`)
* `vim` stuff

<a name="known-issues"></a>

### Known Issues with Steven

* Archaic forms of English; **Workaround**: "Is whereupon really better than 'on which'?" I
  lived in Holland, learned Dutch, and I learned how to hack Modern English
  through Middle English interfaces still preserved in Dutch. For some reason
  I've not been able to extirpate it from my wetware.
* Beating the point to death; **Workaround**: "OK, we get it: $POINT."
* Strong morning person; I will, by default, give my staff my "prime hours." As
  afternoons, near I will not be as sharp. **Workaround**: Avoidance and using the
  calendar to your advantage
* Murkiness: I sometimes beat the point to death, other times I'm murky and
  imprecise as to what I want; **Workaround**: Demand clarity.
  **Counterpoint**: sometimes the ability to translate "murkiness" is core to the
  level of your role. I might suggest this

## Footnotes

1. <a name="fn1"></a> A qualification! Already?! In weeks where we're shortened
   by holiday, either of our vacation time, or unusual circumstances we may
   shift things or skip, but the opportunity will _generally_ always be available.
2. <a name="fn2"></a> OK! as much as I can. But, trust, this is where my heart
   is.

[ttsa]: https://stevengharms.com/books/2019-02-06-turn-the-ship-around/
